Service Page API
===================================

Calvin Spealman

July 15, 2011


Project Overview
-----------------------------------

**"What the heck are you talking about, Calvin?"**

The Service Page API is a common API for extensions that can be used in
any browser, and which can added to existing browsers as a plugin or
extension.


Motivation
-----------------------------------

* I learned how to write Firefox extensions


Motivation
-----------------------------------

* I learned how to write Firefox extensions

* Jetpack extensions


Motivation
-----------------------------------

* I learned how to write Firefox extensins

* Jetpack extensions

* Chrome extensions


Motivation
-----------------------------------

* I learned how to write Firefox extensions

* Jetpack extensions

* Chrome extensions

* Each one was closer to writing a web page than the last...


So...
-----------------------------------


So...
-----------------------------------

Why *isn't* it just writing a web page?


What does it solve?
-----------------------------------

* Writing extensions for multiple browsers is too difficult
* Writing extensions is too unfamiliar for web developers
* Websites cannot easily use extensions to enhance the UX


Multiple browsers
----------------------------------

Extensions are mostly done with web technologies anyway. Why
does it have to be browser specific?


Unfamiliar APIs
----------------------------------

And if its so web-like, why isn't it more web-like?

Is that redundant?

So are the skillsets of website and browser extension development.


How Does It Solve It?
----------------------------------

Service Pages are hidden webpages the browser opens to provide services
to other pages the user visits.


Architecture
----------------------------------

* Website registers the URL of a Service Page, identified by a type
* Other sites ask the browser to access a service, by type
* Browser acts as a proxy
* Requesting page doesn't need to know who it is talking to


My Goals
----------------------------------

First: pie-in-the-sky vaporware.

Second:


Chrome Prototype
----------------------------------

A chrome extension implementing the API demonstrates how it works and
provides a (potential) large user base without any browser vendor
support.


Firefox Version
----------------------------------

This will prove it isn't a one trick pony.

I haven't started this yet.


Useful Service Set
----------------------------------

* Useful set of service types
* Useful set of services offered from servicepage.org
* Jumpstart the concept


The World of Tomorrow
----------------------------------

* Release the chrome extension
* Launch servicepage.org
* Publish the API draft
